Introduction to Digital Marketing

What is Digital Marketing?
- Refers to the advertising delivered through digital channels such as search engines, websites, social media, email and mobile apps.
Using these services/ channels / methodologies the company endorses goods, services and brands.


What is different with respect to the traditional marketing?
- The difference is the medium through which an audience encounters a marketing message.
So while traditional media like magazines and newspaper. Digital marketing uses digital media, such as social media or websites.

Does Traditional media still relevant?
-  Yes it is still relevant. Not all services are availble or marketable online.
Example: B2B service providers which have a small consumber base.

Even the digital media/medium lean on the traditional medium time to time. 
Example: Mail coupons for online stores.

Types of Digital Marketing
1. Search Engine Optimization 
2. Pay per click (PCC)
3. Social Media Marketing
4. Content Marketing
5. Email Marketing
6. Mobile Marketing
7. Marketing Analytics

1. Search Engine Optimizations(SEO): 

Search: Buy car in ontario
- Both dealers and indididuals 
- autotrader.ca
- kijiji.ca
- 

Search: Buy car from dealer in ontario
- Both dealers and individuals
- No 1 Honda dealership/ dealer in Ontario

Content indexing - it should read the descriptions for images and text transcripts for videos.
Good link structure - Its important for search engine crawlers to find the URLs and sitemaps to provide easy access.
Keywords and keyword targeting - Poperly deploying your keywords.

2. Pay-per-click(PPC)
Refers to the paid advertisement and promoted search engine results.
This refers to the ads you see while browsing the web, ads before youtube videos and in ads in mobile apps.
Over here you only pay for users that clicked on the ads and landed on the website.

This also gives you ability to save money and only show ads closer to your business or service location.

Example:
- $500 - $600 take down the ad.
- $1000 - $1500 
- $2000 - $3000 

3. Social Media Marketing

This is more work as compared to managing personal Facebook/Twitter/Instagram profiles. It requires a lot more creative thinking and objective, data driven strategy to promote products/services.
Social media marketers must also be savvy at analyzing the performance of their posts and creating strategies based on that data.

4. Content Marketing

It's a storytelling and information sharing to increase brand awareness.
The ultimate goal is the reader take an action towards becoming a customer.
Examples include: Blog posts, white-papers, e-bboks, digital videos and much more.

Unlike PPC this is a long term strategy. Over time the library content will keep on expanding bringing users from search engines to your
websites. This also promote knowledge and know hows about your product.




