SEO (Search Engine Optimization)

- It is a digital marketing tool comprising of different elements to make a website more visible,
which attracts more traffic and in turn drives the revenue.


http://sellingthings.com/chairs/wood-chairs/teak-wood-chair
http://sellingthings.com/

teak wood chair

Key Words:
Content:
Web page content
Video
Podcasts
 - Saturday night superbowl exlusive podcast

Techniques implied for strong SEO:
1. Backlink building.
2. Local SEO specific for Google Maps
3. Search Engine Marketing (SEM)

Ranking:
It refers to the website positions when searched in any search engine(Google, DuckDuckGo)

What impacts the ranking?
1. Security and accessible website
- https connection and if website can be navigated with tab controls and can be read out loud in
the same order.

2. Page Speed (SLA)
- Page load time generally should be less than 3 seconds.

3. Is your website responsive (Mobile friendly)

4. Domain Age, URL
- classicrecipes.ca, the average age for a domain is 3 years or more.

5. Optimized Content
- using the right keyword for search engine guides.
Toronto Real Estate

6. Technical SEO
a. List down keyword/ phrases in page title, this is the first place where Google first looks to 
determine which content is relevant

b. Use header tags to show content starting with your title at h1 and then use h2 or h3 for sub heads.

c. Create a meta description which include key phrases.
Keep meta descriptions short and catchy with 160 characters limit.\

d. Use keyword phrases in image alt text to show show images relevant to main content.
It's important from accessibility stand point as well.

e. TO use schema markup to tell more about your web content to Google.

7. User Experience(RankBrain)
- It simply means if you click on a search result and spend time on that web page.
It implies that the search result was useful.

8. Links
- Inbound links, Outbound links, Internal links.
a. Inbound links: Sometimes also known as backlinks. Which bring user back to your website or the url points into your application. 
Google views inbound links as an indicator that your site has high quality content making these links one of the most important elements in search engine optimization. 

b. Outbound links: You put out links only to reliable sources that have high trust and domain authority.

c. Internal links: every internal page to have a link of it's own. The reason being every page gets individual ranked and indexed based upon the content.
www.mycompanydomain.com/officedesks
www.mycompanydomain.com/officechairs/high-black-chair

9. Social Signals
- The more number of shares on social media. The better the SEO rankings.
  FB, Twitter, Insta, Whatspp, Telegram

10. Business information
- Name/ Add/ phone number of any business espcially if the search is local.
- Reviews on Google/Yelp
- Business listings on Google My Business and facebook

SERP (Search Engine Results Page)
This feature is not an organic seach result. The most common serp features are:

1. Rich Snippets - which adds visual appearance and show product ratings.
2. Paid Results - uses keywords from google ads.
3. Universal results - this appear in addition to organic results.
4. Knowledge Graph(Card/Panel) - data which appears as panels or boxes.

Compression and Minification







