What is a style?
It's a common html attribute that's used for styling the html element.

What is CSS?
Cascading style sheet

Why do you use CSS?
Style element can be used for individual html elements but for resusable styles 
CSS provides a common way to apply styles to multiple html elements

Can you apply multiple css classes to an html element?
- yes you can apply multiple classes together

Types of CSS selectors:
- class attribute
- group selector (you can apply multiple groups with comma seperation)
- id selector 

CSS Text :
background-color: black;
color: pink;
text-align: center;
text-decoration: underline;
text-transform: uppercase;
letter-spacing: 20px;
word-spacing: 40px;

CSS Icons:
There are different types of icons. It's mostly an external file which we reference in our code.
like example: fontawesome 
There the name of the font is mentioned in the class attribute within the <i> icon html element

CSS Links:

: link - for untouched links
: visited - links been visted
: hover - when you take the mouse on it
: active - when you are actually pressing the button


CSS Dropdowns
are dropdowns purely designed by the using css styles

CSS Display
display visibility properties to enable or disable some of the html elements
: none - hiding the element without deleting it

display: 
none - it will not display at all.
block - it will show but on a new line
inline - it will show but in the same line

CSS Tables
border-bottom - to display border at the bottom
th - text-align - to left
td - vertical-align - to bottom
tr:nth-child(odd) - giving color or any other style to alternating rows


CSS Forms
Improve the look and feel of simple html form.
input[type=submit] - used html element along with attributes to style the input types

CSS Backgrouds
rgb - apply color code 
rgb with opacity - the forth parameter defines the opacity
background-image - url("image name")
background-repeat - which property should repeat
background-position - position of the image that you want to render

Responsive Web Design
- Responsive means website responding to screen size
Responsive design makes your web page look good on all devices.

In simple terms the layout adapts itself and changes the content accordingly.

Media Queries
- It's a technique to identify screen size and apply style accordingly.
it uses the @media rule to include a block of css properties only if a certain condition is true.

ViewPort:
user's visible area of the webpage
<meta>
width=device-width - sets the the width of the page to follow the screen-width
initial-scale=1.0 - sets the initial zoom level when the page is first loaded

Bootstrap CSS:
It's a predefined set of css so that you don't have to write same styles again and again.

https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/getting-started/introduction/
https://hackerthemes.com/bootstrap-cheatsheet/