Operating Systems

Why do you need an Operating System?
- 
1. to manage the individual hardware components.
2. to perform low level operations and tasks.
3. provides a base for all other softwares and drivers to run

What does an Operating System do?
1. Handles all inputs and output
2. It manages all the programs and apps
3. It provides an interface to the users

Types of Operating Systems
1. Windows
2. Mac OS
3. Linux
4. chrome os

C language
OS, 
memory, hdd, chipset, motherboard, processor

Different components/functions of Operating System
1. Input/Output Management: 
It manages the input and output of the device and connects any external pieces of hardware.

2. Memory Management: It's responsible for managing the allocation/ deallocation of memory to
differnet applications/ hardware

3. Resource Management:  It manages multiple process/ cores/ pools to run in parallel. 
So the software can run faster and smoother.

4. Security Management: It keeps the user profiles/ password management/ programs running under
different users settings.

5. Command Interpreter: Every OS has default interpreter which translates the command to actual 
operations on the device.

6. File Management: Operating system manages the location of files on disk and indexs them
for better retrieval.

ASsignment: Read why does Operating system need to index files?
- 

What are Kernel?
- Kernel is a central component of an operating system that manages operations of computer and hardware.
Kernel loads first into memory when an OS is loaded and remains into memory until operating system is 
shut down. It is responsible for disk management, task management and memory management.

Types of Kernels:

1. Monolithic kernel
- Its where all OS services operate in kernel space. It has dependencies between system components.
It has huge line of code which is complex.
- Unix, Linux
Advantage: It has good performance
Disadvantages: It has dependencies b/w system components and lines of codes in millions.

2. Micro Kernel
- It has minimalist approach. It has thread scheduuling and virtual memory. It is more stable with
less kernel space.
- Minix, l4, Mach
Advantange: It is more stable
Disadvantage: There are lots of system calls and context switches.

3. Hybrid Kernel
- It has combination of both Monolithic and Micro kernel. It has speed and design of monolithic and
modularity and stability of microkernel.
- Windows

Q. What type of kernel does OS X(Mac Os) has?

Time-division multiplexing and Space-division multiplexing.

Resource Management: Dynamic allocation and de-allocation by an OS of processor cores, memory pages
and various types of bandwidth to compuptations that compete for those resources..

Different techniques of resource management
Scheduling, policies, multitasking, virtual memory, paging, interrupt and polling.

Both time-division and space-division are types of resource management techniques.

What happens when something for example a process or any program fails?
- 



















