Operating Systems:

DOS 
Windows is an operating system
OSX is in macbooks or apple computers
Linux which is also an operating system
ChromeBook which is by Google is also an OS(Operating System)


OS: 
It is an application which sits on top of the computer hardware 
to facilitate the regular operations of computer

Why do we need OS?
OS is needed to move the mouse.
OS is needed to type
Creating files/ folders
Deleting of files/folders
OS is the one which turns on/off your laptop/computer camera
OS comes with basic softares as calulator/calendar
internet explorer for browsing web
It controls the speaker/ mic
How to connect with Wifi
installing softwares on top of it


All the above functionality is bundled into one Operating System
is sold by companies like Microsft(Windows)/ Apple (OSX)/ RedHat (Linux)/ Google (Chromebook)

How do you decide which OS is best for you? (Below is a gneric assumption)
- Personal or home use Windows works out best as it is easy to understand & operate
Also it is most widely used Operating System.
It is not a free OS and most of the times laptops comes with preinstalled versions of Windows

- If you are in creative field OSX or apple computers are best to work with.
prices are usually integrates with the cost of apple products

- Most of the application servers run on Linux because they are fast and more reliable
It is open source(free) and not so user friendly

- Chromebook is cheaper alternative to windows software for home & personal use
it is free software comes with chromebooks manufactured by Google

Process:
Process is a program in execution.
When a program loaded into memory it becomes a process

Memory:
It is typically divided into 4 parts.
Stack, Heap, Text & Data

Stack: The process Stack contains temporary data such as 
method/function parameters, return address and local variables

Heap: This is dynamically allocated memeory to a process during its 
runtime

Text: This includes the current activity represented by the value of
Program counter and the contents of the processors registers

Data: This section contains the global and static variables

Example:

int main()
{
	printf("Hello World");
	return 0;
}

Process Lifecycle:

Start, Ready, Running, Waiting, Terminated/Exit

OS needs to keep track of different processes.
It is done with the help of few parameters such as 
Process State, Process ID, Program Counter, Memory Management information
Accounting information, IO status information

What is a thread?
A thread is a flow of execution through the code.

Types of threads:
1. User Level Threads
- User managed thread

2. Kernel Level Threads
- Operating system managed threads acting on kernel, 
an operating system core

What is Multithreading?
Running different threads in parallel.


Question:

What is operating system?
a. collection of programs that manages hardware resources
b. system service provider to the application programs
c. link to interface the hardware and application programs
d. all of the above

Services
What are services?
- An OS provides services to both the users and to the program

What are the services provided by these?
- It provides programs an environment to execute
- It provides users the services to execute the program in 
a convenient manner

Following are a few common services provided by an operating system.

- Program execution: Printer spooler, file servers.
Loads program into memmory, execute them, handles program execution, 
synchronization, communication
 
- Input/Output operations: Copy files onto external HDD/pen drive.
I/O operaion means read or write operation with any file or any specific
I/O device.
OS provides the access to the required I/O devices when required.

- File system manipulation: devices like CD/DVD.
Program needs to read a file or write a file
OS also gives permission to the file to perform the operation

- Communication
Two process often require data to be tansferred between them
Both the processes can be on one computer or on different computers but are connected through
a computer network

- Error Detection
The OS constantly checks for possible errors
OS takes an appropriate actions to ensure correct and consistent computing

- Resource Allocation/Management
OS manages all kinds of resources using schedulers
CPU scheduling algorithms are used for better utilization of CPU

- Protection
OS ensures that all access to system resources is controlled
OS ensures that external I/O devices are protected from invalid access attempts
OS provides authentication features for each user by means of password
 
Which one of the following error will be handle by the operating system?
A. power failure
B. lack of paper in printer
C. connection failure in the network
D. all of the mentioned


What are Kernels?
A kernel is the central part of an operating system.
It manages the operations of the computer and the hardware, most
notably memory and CPU time.

Types of Kernels?
A micro kernel: which only contains basic functionality

A monolithic kernel, which contains many device drivers

Hybrid Kernel

Exo Kernel

Nano Kernel

Which OS uses which Kernels?
Windows: Hybrid
Apple OSX: Hybrid
Linux: Monolithic 
Chrome OS/Android : Monolithic kernel

Monolithic kernel: Where the entire OS is working in kernel space
Hybrid kernel: OS that attempts to combine aspects and benefits of 
microkernel and monolithic kernel architectures


The OS X has:
A. monolithic kernel
B. hybrid kernel
C. microkernel
D. monolithic kernel with modules


If a process fails, most operating system write the error information to a:
A. log file
B. another running process
C. new file
D. none of the mentioned

Security
provides protection to computer system resources such as CPU, memory,disk,
software programs and most importantly data/ information stored in the 
computer system.

Authentication
One Time passwords
Program Threats
System Threats
Computer Security Classifications

Authentication:
Username/Password
User card/key
User attribute - fingerprint/ eye retina pattern/ signature

One Time passwords:
Random numbers
Secret Key
Network password

Program Threats:
Trojan Horse
Trap Door
Logic Bomb
Virus

System Threats
Worm: it chokes the system performance by using system 
resources(CPU/memory) to extreme levels
Port Scanning: means by which a hacker can detects system vulnerabilities to 
make an attack on the system
Denial of Service: Denial of service attacks normally prevents user to make
legitimate use of the system.
Ex: a user may not be able to use internet if denial of service attacks browser's content 
settings

Which is not application software?
a. Windows NT
b. Page Maker
c. WinWord XP
d. Photoshop

Types of Processors:
There are only 2 types of prcocessors 32 bit and 64 bit.
32 bit menas that a microprocessor can execute 4 bytes of data
while 64 bit means that a microprocessor can execute 8 bytes of data in one cycle

OS before 2000 were using 32 bit OS while OS after 2000 were mostly 64 bit OS

Which of the following windows version support 64 bit processor?
a. Windows 98
b. Windows 2000
c. Windows XP
d. Windows 95

